Custom input in payment 1279 (#8931)
magento/devdocs: src/guides/v2.3/howdoi/checkout/checkout_paymet_new_field.md

1. Add a requirejs file in module.
1. Override the vendor files.
1. Add a Observer.
1. Verify that it works.

Let’s go through each step.

## Step 1: Create a new module

```bash
cd <magento2_root>/app/code
```

```bash
mkdir Learning
```

```bash
mkdir Learning/CustomField
```

Now, create two files:

`etc/module.xml`

{% collapsible Show code %}

```xml
<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!--
/**
 * Copyright © 2016 Magento. All rights reserved.
 * See COPYING.txt for license details.
 */
-->
<config xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:magento:framework:Module/etc/module.xsd">
  <module name="Learning_CustomField" setup_version="0.0.1">
  </module>
</config>
```

{% endcollapsible %}

`registration.php`

{% collapsible Show code %}

```php?start_inline=1
<?php
/**
 * Copyright © 2016 Magento. All rights reserved.
 * See COPYING.txt for license details.
 */
\Magento\Framework\Component\ComponentRegistrar::register(
    \Magento\Framework\Component\ComponentRegistrar::MODULE,
    'Learning_CustomField',
    __DIR__
);
```

{% endcollapsible %}

## Step 2 Create an InstallData script

Next, we need to create the InstallData script.

> Because adding an new column technically into several tables, such as `quote_payment` and `sales_order_payment.`

Reviewer: @dobooth - can we get a second opinion on this? As a 2.4v is needed and 2.3 support it, should this not be done using the declarative schema method?

									'data-container': getCode() + '-paymentpocomment',
									valueUpdate: 'keyup' "/>
                        </div>
                    </div>
                </div>
            </fieldset>
        </form>
        <div class="checkout-agreements-block">
            <!-- ko foreach: $parent.getRegion('before-place-order') -->
                <!-- ko template: getTemplate() --><!-- /ko -->
            <!--/ko-->
        </div>
        <div class="actions-toolbar" id="review-buttons-container">
            <div class="primary">
                <button class="action primary checkout"
                        type="submit"
                        data-bind="
                        click: placeOrder,
                        attr: {title: $t('Place Order')},
                        enable: (getCode() == isChecked()),
                        css: {disabled: !isPlaceOrderActionAllowed()}
                        "
                        data-role="review-save">
                    <span data-bind="i18n: 'Place Order'"></span>
                </button>
            </div>
        </div>
    </div>
</div>
```

{% endcollapsible %}

## Step 5: Add a Observer.

> Next. we need to create the Observer file for save our custom field data in order.but for the observer file we must create one event.xml file for call observer file in any particular event.(here we use checkout_onepage_controller_success_action event)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, it is necessary to create the Observer file to save the custom field data to the order. For the Observer file an `event.xml` file is required to call the observer for a particular event. For this example, the `checkout_onepage_controller_success_action` event is used.
```

> app/code/Learning/CustomField/etc/events.xml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`app/code/Learning/CustomField/etc/events.xml`
```

```xml
<?xml version="1.0"?>
<config xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:magento:framework:Event/etc/events.xsd">
	<event name="checkout_onepage_controller_success_action">
		<observer name="paymentfields_paymentfields_observer_frontend_sales_orderpaymentsavebefore" instance="Learning\CustomField\Observer\Frontend\Sales\OrderPaymentSaveBefore" />
	</event>
</config>
```

> app/code/Learning/CustomField/Observer/Frontend/Sales/OrderPaymentSaveBefore.php

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`app/code/Learning/CustomField/Observer/Frontend/Sales/OrderPaymentSaveBefore.php`
```

{% collapsible Show code %}

```php?start_inline=1
<?php
/**
 * Copyright ©  All rights reserved.
 * See COPYING.txt for license details.
 */
declare(strict_types=1);

namespace Learning\CustomField\Observer\Frontend\Sales;

use Magento\Framework\Event\Observer as EventObserver;
use Magento\Framework\Event\ObserverInterface;
use Magento\OfflinePayments\Model\Purchaseorder;
use Magento\Framework\App\Request\DataPersistorInterface;

class OrderPaymentSaveBefore implements \Magento\Framework\Event\ObserverInterface
{

>     protected $_order;

Reviewer: Don't use underscores at the start of variables.

    protected $logger;
    protected $_serialize;
    protected $quoteRepository;

    public function __construct(

>         \Magento\Sales\Api\Data\OrderInterface $order,

Reviewer: User short forms in constructors

        \Magento\Quote\Api\CartRepositoryInterface $quoteRepository,
        \Psr\Log\LoggerInterface $logger,
        \Magento\Framework\Serialize\Serializer\Serialize $serialize
    ) {
        $this->_order = $order;
        $this->quoteRepository = $quoteRepository;
        $this->logger = $logger;
        $this->_serialize = $serialize;
    }

    /**
     * Execute observer
     *
     * @param \Magento\Framework\Event\Observer $observer
     * @return void
     */
    public function execute(\Magento\Framework\Event\Observer $observer)
    {
        $orderids = $observer->getEvent()->getOrderIds();

> 

Reviewer: There should be a check for this being an empty array

>         foreach($orderids as $orderid){

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        foreach ($orderids as $orderid) {
```

>             

Reviewer: Remove blank line

            $order = $this->_order->load($orderid);
            $method = $order->getPayment()->getMethod();
            

>             if($method == 'purchaseorder') {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            if ($method === 'purchaseorder') {
```

                $quote_id = $order->getQuoteId();
                $quote = $this->quoteRepository->get($quote_id);
                
                $paymentQuote = $quote->getPayment();
                $paymentOrder = $order->getPayment();
                
                $paymentOrder->setData('paymentpocomment',$paymentQuote->getPaymentpocomment());
                $paymentOrder->save();
            }

> 

Reviewer: Remove blank line

        }
    }
}

```

{% endcollapsible %}

## Step 6: Verify that it works

> Add the product to the cart and go to the checkout page and select `purchase order` payment method and check you can see a new custom filed.(Purchase Order Comment)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add the product to the cart and go to the checkout page and select `purchase order` payment method and check that the new custom field can be seen (Purchase Order Comment).
```

> If you can not see `purchase order` payment method on checkout page then go to admin and enable the payment method. (Stores -> Configuration -> Sales -> Payment Methods -> Other Payment Methods -> Purchase Order -> Enabled)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the `purchase order` payment method cannot be seen on the checkout page then go to Magento Admin and enable the payment method. See **Stores** > **Settings** > **Configuration** > **Sales** > **Payment Methods** > **Other Payment Methods** > **Purchase Order**
```
